



BDD testcases for compose E-mail feature


1.scenario->Send an email
Given that the user is logged in to the g-mail
When the user click on compose
And compose window is open
When the user enters a valid recipient email address
And the user enters a subject
And the user enters the email body
And the user clicks on the send button
Expected result-> the email should be sent successfully and a confirmation message should be displayed

2.scenario->Send e-mail without a recipient
When the user is on the Compose e-mail page
When the user enters a subject line
And the user enters the email body
and the user clicks the Send button  with the To field left empty
then an error message recipient is required is displayed
Expected result: the email is not sent and the user sees a clear error pointing to the missing recipient field

3.Scenario->Send an e-mail with invalid mail id
When  the user is on the Compose e-mail section
When the user enters an invalid email address
then the user enters a subject
And the user added the content in the body
And the user clicks the send mail  button
Expected result->it should display an error message


4.Scenario->Send email to multiple recipients
Given the compose window is open
When the user types more than one mail id’s  in the To field separated by commas
Then two recipient chips should appear
And one chip should display one mail id
And another chip should display another mail ids
Expected result->The user can proceed with composing and sending the email

5.Scenario->File attaches successfully
Given the compose window is open
When the user attaches a pdf
Then an upload progress indicator appears
And an attachment chip displaying pdf  appears below the toolbar
Expected result->User should be able to attach file and send

6.Scenario->User can remove the attachment
Given pdf file  is already attached to the email
When the user clicks the remove icon on the attachment chip
Then the attachment chip disappears
And the file is removed from the email

7.Scenario-> Send email with empty subject
Given a valid recipient and body are entered
And the subject field is empty
When the user clicks send
Then a warning about the empty subject is displayed
And the user can choose to send or cancel
Expected result->A warning prompt about the empty subject is displayed, allowing the user to either send the email anyway or return to editing.

8.Scenario-> Unsupported file type attachment
Given the compose window is open
When the user attempts to attach an unsupported file type
Then an error message is displayed
And the file is not attached

9.Scenario-> Remove attachment during upload
Given a file upload is in progress
When the user clicks the remove icon
Then the upload is cancelled
And the attachment is removed from the email
Expected result->The upload process is cancelled immediately and the attachment is removed from the compose window.

10.Scenario->Discard composed mail

Given the user has composed an email
When the user clicks on discard
Then the email content should be removed
And the compose window should close

11.Scenario-> Send email with CC and BCC
Given the user is on the Compose Email page
  When the user enters valid recipient, CC, and BCC email addresses
  And enters a subject and body
  And clicks on send
  Then the email should be sent successfully
  And all recipients should receive the email

12. Scenario-> Save email as draft
  Given the user is on the Compose Email page
  When the user enters recipient details
  And the user enters a subject
  And the user enters the email body
  And the user clicks on save draft or go to any other mails
 expected result-> the email should be saved in Drafts folder

13. Scenario->Send email with only recipient and subject
Given the compose window is open
When the user enters a valid recipient email address
And enters a subject
And leaves the email body empty
And clicks the Send button
Then the email should be sent successfully
Expected Result-> Email is sent successfully even without body content.

14. Scenario-> Maximum subject length validation
Given the compose window is open
When the user enters a subject exceeding the maximum allowed length
And enters recipient and body details
And clicks Send
Then the system should handle the input appropriately
Expected Result-> Subject is truncated or validation message is displayed according to requirements.

15. Scenario-> Recover auto-saved draft
Given an auto-saved draft exists
When the user opens the Drafts folder
And selects the draft email
Then all previously entered content should be restored
Expected Result-> Recipient, subject, body, and attachments are displayed correctly.
16. Scenario-> Attach multiple files
Given the compose window is open
When the user selects multiple valid files for attachment
Then all selected files should be uploaded successfully
And attachment chips should be displayed for each file
Expected Result-> Multiple files are attached successfully and can be sent with the email.

17. Scenario-> Attachment size exceeds limit
Given the compose window is open
When the user attempts to attach a file larger than the allowed size limit
Then an error message should be displayed
And the file should not be attached
Expected Result->User is informed that the file exceeds the maximum attachment size.

18. Scenario->Verify recipient email suggestion
Given the compose window is open
When the user starts typing an email address in the To field
Then matching contacts should be displayed as suggestions
Expected Result-> Relevant contact suggestions appear and can be selected.

19. Scenario-> Remove recipient from To field
Given one or more recipients are added
When the user clicks the remove icon on a recipient chip
Then the selected recipient should be removed
Expected Result-> Recipient chip disappears and email is not sent to that recipient.

20. Scenario-> Close compose window and continue later
Given the user has entered email content
When the user closes or minimizes the compose window
Then the email content should be preserved
Expected Result-> User can reopen the compose window and continue editing without losing data.

21. Scenario-> Send email after attachment upload completes
Given a file is attached and upload is completed
When the user enters valid recipient, subject, and body details
And clicks Send
Then the email should be sent successfully with the attachment
Expected Result->Recipient receives the email along with the attached file.

22. Scenario-> Internet connection lost while sending email
Given the email is ready to be sent
When the internet connection is lost during sending
Then an appropriate error message should be displayed
And the email should be saved as a draft
Expected Result-> Email is not lost and can be resent once connectivity is restored.

23. Scenario-> Verify keyboard shortcut for sending email
Given the compose window is open
When the user presses Ctrl + Enter 
Then the email should be sent successfully
Expected Result->Email is sent using the keyboard shortcut.

24. Scenario->Verify spell-check suggestions
Given the compose window is open
When the user types a misspelled word in the email body
Then the word should be highlighted
And correction suggestions should be displayed
Expected Result-> User receives spelling suggestions before sending the email.

25. Scenario->Send email to a large number of recipients
Given the compose window is open
When the user enters the maximum allowed number of recipients
And enters subject and body details
And clicks Send
Then the email should be sent successfully
Expected Result->Email is delivered to all recipients within the allowed limit.

26. Scenario->Verify attachment download from received email
Given an email with an attachment has been sent successfully
When the recipient opens the email
And downloads the attachment
Then the file should download successfully and open correctly
Expected Result->Attachment integrity is maintained after sending and downloading.

27. Scenario->Save draft with attachment
Given the user has added recipient details, subject, body, and attachment
When the user saves the email as a draft
Then all entered information including the attachment should be saved
Expected Result-> Draft contains recipient details, subject, body, and attachments when reopened.


























Manual-2 days
Playwright-10day
SQL-2
API-3
Mock
mock



let a=10
let b=3
console.log(a+b)
console.log(a-b)
console.log(a*b)
console.log(a/b)
console.log(a**b)
console.log(a%b)
i=10
//a=i++
a=++i
console.log(a)
console.log(i)
//--
a=8
x=-a

//+=











